---
layout: post
title: Week 4 Blog Post (Both Parts)
---

# Week 4 Blog Post

# Part 1: Community Groups

## [Sisters Unchained](https://www.sistersunchained.com/)

This video was incredibly raw and powerful. A moment around 16 minutes in captured my attention in particular. Ayana, one of the subjects, talks about the specific emotional experiences and emphasizes exactly what she has missed out on. Her clear, expressive language made me remember a word I learned a few weeks ago: saudade, a Galician/Portuguese word that describes a tangible lack of presence often associated with missing a homeland, partner or relative.

It was hard to hear about the missing relationships and the pain that prison has caused for the people in the video. I watched the video a little at a time. I've heard the statistics before, but there's something more immediately horrifying about the personal experiences prison causes (not just for the person being imprisoned, but for everyone around them). This video made me cry, and it made me angry, and I'm glad I experienced that. I wish these experiences were centered more often.

## [Hyde Square Task Force](https://www.hydesquare.org/)

**Map**

I've been on Centre Street, and I've seen maps of it, but none of them looked like [this one](https://github.com/MimiOnuoha/Impossible-Maps/blob/master/week4/Hyde%20Sq%20Cultural%20District%20Map_Revised.pdf). The thing that hit me immediately about this map is that it's connected to the physical space and emotional environment in a way that, for example, the Google Maps version of this area just isn't. I was in the area to film a protest by City Life / Vida Urbana against a rent increase and large-scale eviction and interview protestors, and (especially within that context) the locally owned businesses were by far the most defining geography.

**HSTF Youth Focus Group**

- The connections to technology and business stuck out to me (optimizing for "Instagrammable" spots, mailing lists, lighting, local businesses, shopping events, branding)
- It's clear that the young people in this focus group thought deeply about what threatens their community.
    - Question: how old are they?
    - Question: how do the threats they mention make them feel?
- Question: what did the students mean by "HSTF censors everything" on page 1 near the bottom?

## [Urbano Project](http://urbanoproject.org/)

I was unable to access the document about Urbano Project, but I'm familiar with their work (they partnered with [Civic Media Co-Design](http://codesign.mit.edu/about/) Studio, a course I took at MIT Civic Media Center/Media Lab). I refreshed my memory by going over their website (which I was impressed by). It seems like their branding has been refined and it's really cohesive and beautiful.

## Unifying Thoughts

I don't think my thoughts and emotions are fully-formed enough yet to make a meaningful map about any of these groups, but here's what I'm feeling:

- I really wish these problems had clear, simple solutions
- The young people involved in all of this activism are incredibly impressive, and it's deeply sad to me that some of them have such a genuine need to use their communication to influence the ~~"justice"~~ prison system, which should already be under their control as citizens

# Part 2: Readings

## The Social Life of Urban Spaces

Whyte is deliberate, measured, and specific. His understanding of the specific, practical rules that somehow seem to flow from the complex systems that control individual humans' walking paths and behavior patterns. I see a parallel between his abstractions (specific, clear, intuitive rules that are derived from the characteristic outcomes of millions' behavior) and the physics force model (simplified models for characteristic behaviors derived from the small group of fundamental forces). I wonder how explicit his model could be made, and whether it could be applied computationally and/or predictively.

## [Speculative Infrastructure at the Urban Margins](http://africanurbanism.net/speculative-infrastructures-at-the-urban-margins/)

At first, I was very skeptical of the linguistic structure of this article. I'm still not sure I understand the difference between "something that can be defined and measured and studied and governed" and "a politics that can only be performed, arranged, oriented, embodied" in practical terms.

The idea that margins are a complex, political combination of actions still feels very relevant to me, especially as a person who experiences both extreme privilege (wealth, location, white privilege in almost every context, access) and extreme marginalization (being a queer, Jewish, transfeminine person). "The margin" become a much more expressive, descriptive, useful concept when its meaning goes beyond describing one specific group or physical location and instead emphasize a process of marginalization.

## Mapping as Militant Research

Before starting this class, I would not have read an initial description of the situation (U.N.C. partially cancelling Labor Day) and immediately thought that the students and professors should try mapping the university, but there's something very appealing about the imagery. I wonder what the long-term effects of this mapping work were.
