# Map and Animations

I decided to animate my map for this week! When you [view it here](https://sdaitzman.github.io/Impossible-Maps/week2/basic-vector-map), it should gradually zoom and pan in, and eventually load my walk today.

# [Sorry, We Have No Imagery here](https://www.atlasobscura.com/articles/investigating-censored-spots-on-google-earth)

It's fascinating to me that companies and governments cooperate with Google to censor specific areas (as opposed to trying to generally prevent them from capturing images). Why does Google have the power to capture these images? On the other hand, why does a government have the power to tell them not to? Presumably, the images still exist at Google; are governments okay with that? This reading raises so many questions for me. I wonder what the internal review process is like. If a nation-state passes a law that mandates that Google not depict it anywhere, would Google listen? Even if threatened with loss of access to the people of that country, Google might still have a stronger negotiating position. I also wonder how they decide between different visual styles for the censorship.

I've been thinking a lot about inadvertent maps. Perhaps this is an accidental power map: locations that are secret or concealed have power because they aren't publicly known, and governments care about protecting that power.

# Seeing Like a State

I appreciated the relative objectivity of this piece. Most of the work I've read that discusses states' approach to organizing land and people treats the actions of the state as either necessary and positive, or concentrated amoral violence. I love the imagery in this piece: the anthropomorphic parallels are powerful and helped me understand the situations being discussed. I mostly scanned through the middle section because I'm catching up on time after a Make-a-thon, and I'm planning to read it more closely in a few days (perhaps this weekend).
